---
layout: post

redirect_from: "/articles/hello-mozilla/"

title: "Hello, Mozilla"
subtitle: "Joining the Firefox UX team at Mozilla to work on the next generation of web browsers"
cover_image: mountains.jpg

excerpt: "Joining the Firefox UX team at Mozilla to work on the next generation of web browsers"

---

Coming from a web application background, I have always had a strong and opinionated interest in web browsers, and know more than I really should about rendering engines, CSS implementation and all the other stuff that web developers struggle with every day. It’s not pretty, but the past two years have finally brought some real progress in this area.

On the end-user side of things, the web has evolved tremendously the past few years, but there are still elements of the interaction models that are fundamentally broken, and the approachability for people that are new to the internet — or are otherwise disadvantaged — isn’t as good as I’d like it to be. In the other end of the spectrum, all current web browsers struggle with scaling up their user interface to keep up with the most demanding power users.

With my new job at Mozilla, I get to put my efforts towards making the leading open source browser even better, and help advance the web, change the way people use the internet — and hopefully fix some of my own pet peeves along the way.

Another reason that I’m very excited about working here is that Mozilla *gets* open source. They *get* evangelism, and they *get* open standards. The chance to work with experts in these areas will help me advance both the Plone and Mozilla projects.

I don’t think I could have asked for a better fit, or a nicer group of people. I’m looking forward to the opportunity ahead of me, and I can already tell that it’ll be expanding my horizon in unpredictable and amazing ways.

I couldn’t be more excited about what the future holds.
