---
layout: post

redirect_from: "/articles/firefox-acid3/"

title: "Mythbusting: Why Firefox 4 won’t score 100 on Acid3"
subtitle: "…and why that’s a good thing"
cover_image: mountains.jpg

excerpt: "…and why that’s a good thing"

---

<i>Update, September 16, 2011:</i> The Acid3 test has been updated to drop the tests that weren't relevant to modern browsers and standards, so any version of Firefox going back to — and including — Firefox 4 will show as scoring 100. Thanks to [the authors] for updating the test. Original article follows.

* * *

<span>[Acid3] was a test</span> written by Ian Hickson in 2008 that tests a limited selection of web browser features, and assigns a score from 0 to 100, depending on which features are supported.

Every once in a while — especially around the time of an upcoming new release — people argue that Firefox isn’t standards compliant, since it doesn’t score 100 on this test, but has been scoring 97 for quite a while, and will probably never implement what’s required to reach a score of 100.

Here’s why, explained by Mozilla engineer Boris Zbarsky, from a [comment on Slashdot], and reposted with permission — emphasis added by me:

> Those remaining 3 points are SVG Fonts.
> 
> Opera and Webkit implemented (very brokenly, in at least Opera’s case) a small subset of SVG 1.1 Fonts; basically just enough to pass Acid3.
> 
> We don’t particularly want to do that small subset in Gecko, since it gives no benefits to authors or users over the existing downloadable font support (beyond the brownie points on Acid3).
> 
> On the other hand, support for the full specification in a UA that also supports HTML is… very difficult. SVG fonts are just not designed with integration with HTML in mind. Once you put an `<iframe>` in a glyph, all sorts of issues arise — both in terms of the spec being under-defined and in terms of the behavior being very difficult to implement, no matter what the spec said.
> 
> *At this point, the SVG working group has decided that SVG Fonts will no longer be a core part of SVG but will be a separate specification, and that it might need some serious work if anyone is ever to implement it in full.*

Related, Robert O’Callahan has a post on why [not implementing features is hard], and why it’s sometimes even important. In other words, the WOFF font standard is more appropriate, works in more browsers, and is a better way to handle custom font support in browsers. Implementing just enough of the standard to pass a test is disingenuous, and has nothing to do with standards compliance. Acid3 was useful at the time to give the general public a way to see where some of the browsers were falling down expressed as a simple numerical rating — but nearly three years later, with all the major browsers supporting these features, it’s not really relevant anymore.

* * *

<span>The next time</span> someone posts a comment about how Firefox *still* doesn’t score 100 on Acid3, please link them to this article. I wrote this post since there isn’t a highly ranked piece on this if you search for “Firefox Acid3,” and there should be. Hopefully my site’s search engine ranking can be useful for something.

[the authors]: https://plus.google.com/107429617152575897589/posts/JdHnqpuUER4
[Acid3]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acid3 "Acid3 - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia"
[comment on Slashdot]: http://developers.slashdot.org/comments.pl?sid=1713004&cid=32847010
[not implementing features is hard]: http://weblogs.mozillazine.org/roc/archives/2010/06/not_implementin.html

*[AMO]: addons.mozilla.org
*[Acid3]: Acid test
*[CDNs]: Content Delivery Networks
*[CPUs]: Central Processing Units
*[CPU]: Central Processing Unit
*[CSS]: Cascading Style Sheets
*[DSL]: Digital Subscriber Line
*[HTML5]: HyperText Markup Language 5
*[HTML]: HyperText Markup Language
*[HTTP]: HyperText Transfer Protocol
*[IBM]: International Business Machines
*[JAR]: Java Archive
*[JPEG]: Joint Photographic Expert Group
*[JS]: JavaScript
*[MIME]: Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions
*[NTLM]: NT LAN Manager
*[OS X]: Mac OS Ten
*[PDF]: Portable Document Format
*[SPDY]: Speedy
*[SSL]: Secure Sockets Layer
*[SVG]: Scalable Vector Graphics
*[TLS]: Transport Layer Security
*[UA]: User Agent
*[UI]: User Interface
*[URLs]: Uniform Resource Locators
*[URL]: Uniform Resource Locator
*[USA]: United States of America
*[US]: United States
*[UTF-8]: Unicode Transformation Format 8
*[VPN]: Virtual Private Network
*[WOFF]: Web Open Font Format
*[XHTML]: Extended HyperText Markup Language
*[ZIP]: ZIP
